---
title: public landscape for new community part2
img: landscape_design/public-landscape-for-new-community-part2/1-02.jpg
---
The prevalence of low-density, automobile-dependent communities has resulted in unsustainable lifestyles that increasingly threaten human health and well-being. In addition to inflating housing and transportation costs and increasing carbon emissions, disconnected communities reliant on cars create sedentary lifestyles. The lack of access to environments that encourage daily exercise, provide clean air and water and offer affordable services and nutritious food has meant growing epidemics of depression, obesity, diabetes, asthma, and heart disease.
How landscape is used is the ultimate test of a project. Do people love the spaces, sit in the gardens, keep it tidy, even use it at all times of year? To achieve this, good urban landscape design increasingly involves closer and lasting engagement with communities. Sometimes it begins with a community, sometimes it is run by the community, but it always ends with a community – otherwise the landscape will fail. Public places and spaces are where community happens, where communities thrive and people get to know their neighbours.
 Pedestrian promenade is screened from the parking and playground by the use of a sculptural screen wall designed by the architects and inspired by the building style. In addition, a rhythmic procession of raised planters, bench seating, lawn panels and decomposed granite paving invites passersby to take respite in a variety of intimate urban niches sheltered by ornamental trees. 
